All right we're going to do this just for fun usually breath first search is implemented the way we
saw it just using a iterative approach but for fun I want to see if we can do a recursive breath for
search and in order for us to do a recursive breadth first search we can create a new function will
have our here for recursive and in here we need to create a base case went to start and we will stop
if Q Dot lenth is zero or we can just say when Q Dot length is 0 like this if that's the case we want
to have our base case and we turn the list but you'll notice here that I haven't defined what Q And
list is like I did with our iterative approach and that's because if I go to the top here and declare
these variables like I did because in every recursive function this function will be called over and
over.
We're going to be resetting these variables and lists over and over to an empty array.
So the way we would do this in a recursive function is that we need to actually pass Q and list as a
parameter so that what we'd call it down here instead of doing it this way we'd have to say that the
q will have the this dot root node.
But remember the Q has to be an array so we just wrap this in curly brackets and in javascript this
shows that we have an array with item of this dot root kind of like we did with breadth first search
the first time around right.
The initial Q How the current node which was this dot root root don't.
And then the second parameter would be the list R and Sarah which will start off with an empty array.
So now that we have this and that's a bit of a gotcha when it comes to recursive functions we can now
do something similar to how we did the first time around with our iterative approach will say that our
current node use LET here let Kurn node equal to this dot Q Dot shift.
Again same thing as we did up above over here.
To grab the current node and then we can actually just copy what we did over here.
If current no left to push the left node if current node has a right child then push it to the queue
as well.
So I'm just going to copy this and add it over here.
Make sure the indentation is working now it's better.
And finally because this is a recursive function we want to turn the function so that it goes through
again and this time giving it the cue and the list and I know this can get a little bit confusing.
You might have to look at it but going through it step by step in your head you might want to grab this
code after this video to see how it works.
It's not that much different from the iterative approach and because this is referring to a method inside
of a class the way it works in javascript is we have to say this dot breath for search which refers
to the class use the method within this class.
And I notice that we don't need this for the queue because queue is just a parameter.
Now we also want to make sure that we push to the list when we're in here.
So just like we did above we're going to say a list don't push the current node Daut value again exactly
like we've done above here.
We want to push the last value to the list because the list is our answer.
Now if I click run here I'm going to get an error.
And this is a bit of a gotcha a little bit javascript's specific.
And one of the reasons I can get frustrating with javascript is that this this keyword only works when
we're inside of the class the binary search string class outside of this.
Remember that we have the tree class that we instantiated.
So this is tree dot root and if we run this we now have our list this time done recursively.
I'll leave this for you to play around with.
And see which one you like better.
But both of these now give us the same results.
Nine for Nine for 20 1:06 15 170.
I'll see in the next video.